docs: add autoscaling configuration guide for InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated (#6881)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb3/cloud-dedicated/admin/autoscaling.md

---
title: Enable autoscaling
seotitle: Configure autoscaling for InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated
description: >
  Learn how autoscaling works in InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated and how to
  enable and configure autoscaling limits for your clusters.
menu:
  influxdb3_cloud_dedicated:
    parent: Administer InfluxDB Cloud
weight: 106
influxdb3/cloud-dedicated/tags: [admin, autoscaling, performance]
---

> Enable autoscaling to automatically adjust your {{% product-name %}} cluster capacity in response to workload demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable autoscaling to automatically adjust your {{% product-name omit="Clustered" %}} cluster capacity in response to workload demand.
```

Autoscaling helps protect performance during spikes while minimizing manual intervention and over-provisioning.

- [What is autoscaling](#what-is-autoscaling)
- [How autoscaling works](#how-autoscaling-works)
- [Enable autoscaling for a cluster](#enable-autoscaling-for-a-cluster)
- [Update or disable autoscaling](#update-or-disable-autoscaling)
- [Monitor autoscaling behavior](#monitor-autoscaling-behavior)

## What is autoscaling

> Autoscaling for InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated automatically scales cluster components based on workload demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Autoscaling for {{% product-name %}} automatically scales cluster components based on workload demand.
```
